## Q1 - By your understanding, what are OOP and FP? Please explain the difference with code examples.

They are 2 main programming paradigms that are very important to Javascript developers due especially to how the language was designed and the designs going forward.

### OOP

Object Oriented Programming is a a paradigm that visualizes information in the form of objects, which holds a set of expected data that it would contain. Procedures would be done on these objects to manipulate its data.

```javascript
// create an object
class Car {
  constructor(manufacturer, name, type) {
    this._manufacturer = manufacturer;
    this._name = name;
    this._type = type;
  }

  get manufacturer() {
    return this._manufacturer;
  }

  get name() {
    return this._name;
  }

  get type() {
    return this._type;
  }
}

Car.prototype.getDescription = function getDescription() {
  return `${this._manufacturer} ${this._manufacturer} is a ${this._type}`;
};

var car = new Car("Tesla", "Model 3", "Sedan");
console.log(car.getDescription()); // Tesla Model 3 is a Sedan
```

Objects can also extend/inherit traits from other objects. Javascript has prototypal inheritance, which means that rather than inheriting from a 'blueprint' class definition as other OOP languages like Java does, JS objects inherit from other objects. ES6 introduces class inheritence, but underneath the layer its still sort of prototypal.

```javascript
// inherit from Car
class Sedan extends Car {
  constructor(manufacturer, name) {
    super(manufacturer, name, "sedan");
  }
}
var sedan = new Sedan("BMW", "3 series");
console.log(sedan.getDescription()); // BMW 3 series is a Sedan
```

Other OOP languages include Java and C++

### FP

Functional Programming has a steeper learning curve when compared to OOP because traditionally most developers are trained in using OOP techniques. Functional programming aims to write programs using as simplest as possible and pure functions to do processes. Another main tenet of FP is to minimize shared state and side effects.

One of the more powerful features of JS is first class functions, which enable JS functions to be passed as arguments. This allows very robust codes to be written with very limited worry for conflicts due to shared states.

```javascript
// this method returns a function, using closure
const sayHi = name => () => console.log(`Hello there, ${name}!`);

// call sayHi after 3 seconds, using the returned function
setTimeout(sayHi("John Doe"), 3000);
```

Another interesting FP feature for JS are closures. As seen above, the `console.log` uses the variable `name` within the `sayHi` scope, even after the actual `sayHi` function call has been finished. This feature is often used to pass secrets that arent usually readable in JS object destructuring.

Other FP languages include Haskel and Lisp
